Getting started data prepper (#1480)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _clients/data-prepper/get-started.md

Data Prepper is an independent component, not an OpenSearch plugin, that converts data for use with OpenSearch. It's not bundled with the all-in-one OpenSearch installation packages.

If you are migrating from Open Distro Data Prepper, visit the [Migrating from Open Distro](migrating_from_opendistro.md) page. Otherwise, please continue.

## 1. Installing Data Prepper

There are two ways to install Data Prepper for running:

1. Run the Docker image

> 2. Build from source

Reviewer: It is possible to install from `tar.gz` now. (Our repo is out-of-date on this).

I'm not sure we want to have "Build from source" in the opensearch.org documentation. It is mostly useful in certain situations (bleeding-edge, contributions).

Author: @dlvenable Do you have a link to the tar.gz file?

Reviewer: The tar.gz changes with every build. I think the best solution is to point the customer to the download page: https://opensearch.org/downloads.html#data-prepper

That will have the latest version available.

Author: @Naarcha-AWS FYI, there is some new information here.

Author: @dlvenable Noted - I am going to make a separate issue to address the tar.gz installation instructions.

The easiest way to use Data Prepper is by running the Docker image. We suggest
you use this approach if you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) available.

You can pull the Docker image:

```
docker pull opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

If you have special requirements that require you build from source, or if you

> want to contribute, please see the [Developer Guide](developer_guide.md).

Reviewer: This Developer Guide is located in the Data Prepper GitHub repository. So we should link to it using a fully-qualified URL:

https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md

> want to contribute, please see the [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
want to contribute, see the [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md).
```

## 2. Configuring Data Prepper

You must configure Data Prepper with a pipeline before running it.

You will configure two files:

* `data-prepper-config.yaml`
* `pipelines.yaml`

> Depending on what you want to do, we have a few different guides to configuring Data Prepper.

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on your use case, we have a few different guides to configuring Data Prepper.
```

> Depending on what you want to do, we have a few different guides to configuring Data Prepper.

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on your use case, we have a few different guides to configuring Data Prepper.
```

> * [Trace Analytics](trace_analytics.md) - Learn how to setup Data Prepper for trace observability

Reviewer: These three files are also in the GitHub repository and need fully qualified links:

Basically add the following in front of the links:
`https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/docs/`

Reviewer 3: Switch to: `{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/trace-analytics/`

> * [Trace Analytics]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/trace-analytics/) - Learn how to setup Data Prepper for trace observability

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS , I still don't see these available in the documentation. I expect that these links will be broken.

Reviewer 3: @dlvenable: I went ahead and made issue to migrate Trace Analytics before we merge this page. See issue #1837

e51e700e-5cab-4f6d-879a-1c3235a77d18
b4ed2d7e-cf9c-4e9d-967c-b18e8af35c90
```
The remainder of this page shows examples for running from the Docker image. If you

> built from source, refer to [Developer Guide](developer_guide.md) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
built from source, refer to [Developer Guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/developer_guide.md) for more information.
```

However you configure your pipeline, you will run Data Prepper the same way. You run the Docker
image and supply both the `pipelines.yaml` and `data-prepper-config.yaml` files.

> For Data Prepper 2.0 or above, use this command:

Author: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper 2.0 or later, use this command:
```

```
docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD}/data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/config/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0:

Reviewer: It would be 1.5 or earlier.

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0:

Author: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper version 1.5 or earlier:
```

```

> docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD}/data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest

Reviewer: Data Prepper `latest` could be 2.0 soon. Perhaps we should change this to `data-prepper:1` which loads the latest from the 1.x series.

```

Once Data Prepper is running, it will process data until it is shutdown. Once you are done, shut it down with

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:4900/shutdown
```
### Additional Configurations

> For Data Prepper 2.0 or above, Log4j 2 configuration file is read from `config/log4j2.properties` in the application's home directory. 

Author: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper 2.0 or later, the Log4j 2 configuration file is read from `config/log4j2.properties` in the application's home directory. 
```

By default, it's using `log4j2-rolling.properties` in the *shared-config* directory.

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0, optionally add `"-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/log4j2.properties"` to the command if you would 

Reviewer: Also, 1.5

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0, optionally add `"-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/log4j2.properties"` to the command if you would 

Author: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper version 1.5 or earlier, optionally add `"-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/log4j2.properties"` to the command if you would 
```

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0, optionally add `"-Dlog4j.configurationFile=config/log4j2.properties"` to the command if you would 

Author: @dlvenable Is this before 2.0? or 1.5?

like to pass a custom log4j2 properties file. If no properties file is provided, Data Prepper will default to the log4j2.properties file in the *shared-config* directory.

## Next Steps

> All Data Prepper instances expose a few APIs. The [API documentation](core_apis.md) outlines these APIs and

Reviewer: Another link that needs to be fully qualified.

Reviewer 3: Switch to: `{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/api/`

how to configure the server.

Trace Analytics is an important Data Prepper use case. If you haven't yet configure it,

> please visit the [Trace Analytics documentation](trace_analytics.md).

Reviewer: broken link

Reviewer 3: Switch to: {{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/trace-analytics/

> Trace Analytics is an important Data Prepper use case. If you haven't yet configure it,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trace Analytics is an important Data Prepper use case. If you haven't yet configured it,
```

> Trace Analytics is an important Data Prepper use case. If you haven't yet configure it,

Author: ```suggestion
Trace analytics is an important Data Prepper use case. If you haven't yet configured it,
```

> Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation](log_analytics.md).

Reviewer: broken link

Reviewer 3: @carolxob: Let's set these up in such a way that they'll match the new markdown files once we migrate them over.

For example:

```suggestion
Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics.md).
```

> To run Data Prepper with a Logstash configuration, please visit the [Logstash Migration Guide](logstash_migration_guide.md).

Reviewer: broken link

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To run Data Prepper with a Logstash configuration, please visit the [Logstash Migration Guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/logstash-migration-guide/).
```

> To monitor Data Prepper, please read the [Monitoring](monitoring.md) page.

Reviewer: broken link

> To monitor Data Prepper, please read the [Monitoring](monitoring.md) page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To monitor Data Prepper, please read the [Monitoring]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/monitoring/) page.
```

> Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics/).

Reviewer 2: Same. Unless "Log Ingestion" is a proper noun, "ingestion" should be lowercase.

> Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, see the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics/).
```

> Log Ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics/).

Author: ```suggestion
Log ingestion is also an important Data Prepper use case. To learn more, visit the [Log Ingestion Documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/log-analytics/).
```

> To run Data Prepper with a Logstash configuration, please visit the [Logstash Migration Guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/logstash-migration-guide/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how to run Data Prepper with a Logstash configuration, see the [Logstash Migration Guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/logstash-migration-guide/).
```

> To monitor Data Prepper, please read the [Monitoring]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/monitoring/) page.

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS , This also does not appear to have been copied over. So another likely broken link.

Reviewer 3: I went ahead and made an issue to migrate the monitoring page. see #1838

> To monitor Data Prepper, please read the [Monitoring]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/monitoring/) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on how to monitor Data Prepper, see the [Monitoring]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/clients/data-prepper/monitoring/) page.
```

> ## Other Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Other examples
```

> We have other several Docker [examples](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have several other Docker [examples](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/)
```

> We have other several Docker [examples](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/)

Author: ```suggestion
For other Docker examples that allow you to run Data Prepper in different scenarios, see [examples] (https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/) 
```

> that allow you to run Data Prepper in different scenarios.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this as "For other Docker examples that allow you to run Data Prepper in different scenarios, see [link]."
